chore(docs): Edits to Project Setup & Config file docs (#1085)
hashicorp/terraform-cdk: website/docs/cdktf/create-and-deploy/project-setup.html.md

layout: "docs"
page_title: "Project Setup"
sidebar_current: "cdktf"
description: "Build a CDKTF application from a template or existing HCL project, and configure storage for Terraform state."
---

# Project Setup

> There are several ways to create a new CDK for Terraform (CDKTF) project, including creating a new application from a pre-built or custom template, or converting an existing HCL project. When you create a new project, you also have the option of storing Terraform state locally, or using Terraform Cloud. This page discusses these setup options in more detail. 

Author: updated locally

> There are several ways to create a new CDK for Terraform (CDKTF) project, including creating a new application from a pre-built or custom template, or converting an existing HCL project. When you create a new project, you also have the option of storing Terraform state locally, or using Terraform Cloud. This page discusses these setup options in more detail. 

Author: updated locally

```
$ cdktf init --template="typescript" --local
```

### Use Terraform Cloud as a Remote Backend

If you don't want to store Terraform state locally, you can configure your app to use Terraform Cloud as a remote backend. Initialize a project without passing the `--local` flag, to prompt CDKTF to use your stored [Terraform Cloud](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/index.html) credentials to create a new workspace for storing state. If you have no stored Terraform Cloud credentials, CDKTF will ask you to login.

The new scaffolded project is configured to use Terraform state with a [remote backend](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/settings/backends/remote.html). Where the Terraform operations will happen depends on the configuration of the Terraform Cloud Workspace settings. When created as part of the `cdktf init` command, the Terraform operations will be run locally by default. The Terraform Cloud workspace an be configured to use remote operations instead (see below).

#### Terraform Cloud VCS Integration

> Terraform Cloud supports [connecting to VCS providers](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/vcs/index.html). To use the VCS integration, commit the synthesized Terraform config (the `cdktf.out` directory) alongside your code, so that Terraform Cloud can use it to deploy your infrastructure. On the General Settings page of your Terraform Cloud Workspace [set the Terraform Working Directory](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/settings.html#terraform-working-directory) to the output directory of the stack you want to deploy. So for example use `cdktf.out/stacks/dev` if your stack is named `dev` (please refer to the [Stacks documentation](/docs/cdktf/stacks.html) for more information on how you can use stacks to separate the state management for multiple environments within an application).

Reviewer: PS. Do we have a ticket for the stacks page? I recently added it in a PR somewhere, but I don't want it to get lost because I don't know if it was part of the original plan that we built the board on. 

```suggestion
Terraform Cloud supports [connecting to VCS providers](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/vcs/index.html). To use the VCS integration, commit the synthesized Terraform config (the `cdktf.out` directory) alongside your code, so that Terraform Cloud can use it to deploy your infrastructure. On the General Settings page of your Terraform Cloud workspace [set the Terraform working directory](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/settings.html#terraform-working-directory) to the output directory of the stack you want to deploy. So for example, use `cdktf.out/stacks/dev` if your stack is named `dev`. Refer to the [Stacks documentation](./stacks.html) for more information about using stacks to separate the state management for multiple environments in an application.
```

Author: @laurapacilio We plan to cover apps and stacks in the architecture page: https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/issues/972

> ~> **Important**: The synthesized Terraform config might contain credentials or other sensitive data which was provided as input for the `cdktf` application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~> **Important**: The synthesized Terraform config might contain credentials or other sensitive data that was provided as input for the `cdktf` application. 
```

Author: updated locally

#### External CI service

If you prefer to keep the generated artifacts out of your repository, use any CI (Continuous Integration) service to build and deploy them instead. The CDK for Terraform CLI supports deploying to Terraform Cloud using either the local or remote execution mode. For more information on how runs work in Terraform Cloud, see [Terraform Runs and Remote Operations](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/run/index.html).

In your CI steps use the `cdktf-cli` commands to synthesize your code and deploy your infrastructure:

```
cdktf deploy --auto-approve
```

## Project Configuration

> Installing CDK for Terraform with a pre-built template generates a basic `cdktf.json` file in your root directory that you can customize for your application. This config file is where you can define the [providers](/docs/cdktf/concepts/fundamentals/providers.html) and [modules](docs/cdktf/concepts/fundamentals/modules.html) that should be added to the project, and also supply custom configuration settings for the application. Please refer to the [cdktf.json documentation](/docs/cdktf/concepts/cdktf-json.html) for more detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing CDK for Terraform with a pre-built template generates a basic `cdktf.json` file in your root directory that you can customize for your application. This config file is where you can define the [providers](/docs/cdktf/concepts/fundamentals/providers.html) and [modules](docs/cdktf/concepts/fundamentals/modules.html) that should be added to the project, and also supply custom configuration settings for the application. Refer to the [cdktf.json documentation](/docs/cdktf/concepts/cdktf-json.html) for more detail.
```

app.synth();
```

> The ability to initialize a new CDKTF project from an HCL project is currently limited to projects that use the `typescript` template, but you can use the `cdktf convert` command to convert individual HCL files to another programming language. Please refer to the [`cdktf convert` command documentation](/docs/cdktf/cli-reference/commands.html) for more information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability to initialize a new CDKTF project from an HCL project is currently limited to projects that use the `typescript` template, but you can use the `cdktf convert` command to convert individual HCL files to another programming language. Refer to the [`cdktf convert` command documentation](/docs/cdktf/cli-reference/commands.html) for more information. 
```

Author: updated locally
